Route description

   
 Blind corners without 
shoulders  are common along State 
Route 128 State Route 128 begins just north of Moab 
, where it is commonly known as "the 
river road". The highway follows the southern bank of theColorado River 
 through a narrow, steep gorge, 
described as spectacular byNational Geographic 
. 
 The sheer 
sandstone  walls of the gorge along 
Route 128 are recommended for their beauty on vacation guides from as far away 
as France and Germany. 
 


As parts of the road are very narrow, with blind corners and no shoulders 
, the Utah Department of 
Transportation  
has prohibited trucks and vehicles over 55,000 pounds (24,948 kg) from the 
entire highway. In addition, a restriction at the junction withU.S. Route 191 
 requires vehicles over 15 
feet (4.6 m) wide to have two police escorts. 


Between Moab and Castle Valley 
, the Colorado River, and 
indirectly, Route 128, form the southern boundary ofArches National Park 
. Arches National Park is so 
named because of over 2000natural arches 
 inside park boundaries. 
 While 
the highway does offer views of several features in the park, there is no park 
access along the highway. 
 
Popular attractions along this portion includeNegro Bill Canyon 
, with hiking trails to Morning 
Glory Arch, campgrounds and boat docks at a curve in the river called Big Bend.[
11 


   
 Castleton Tower 
, spire visible from SR-128 that 
has been featured in several western movies and commercials The gorge widens 
where the highway passes by Castle Valley and Professor Valley, which have been 
the shooting locations for manywestern films 
 (including Wagon Master 
 and Rio Grande 
) and television commercials 
. 
 
Near the east end of the valley the highway crosses Onion Creek, a steam 
sourced by springs that contain naturally occurring minerals that produce a 
strong odor in the water. 
 
At the east end of the valley the highway has a view of the Fisher Towers, a 
set of dark redspires . After leaving the 
valley, the road winds farther up the river gorge until arriving at the Dewey 
Bridge, named forDewey , a nearby 
ghost town . 


After the bridge, the road follows the northern bank of the river for a few 
miles then exits the Colorado River gorge. At this point the highway proceeds 
across desert towards theBook Cliffs  
to terminate atInterstate 70 
 nearCisco . 
 
Cisco is a ghost town along the main line of theDenver and Rio Grande Western 
Railroad , 
founded as a water re-filling station forsteam locomotives 
. 
 
The last 3 miles (4.8 km) of the road parallel the railroad and is an old 
routing ofU.S. Route 6 /U.S. 
Route 50 , in use before the 
construction of I-70. 




 